Broken Hearts Batte, a lowpoly 3D fighting game and homage to Katawa Shoujo
==========================================================================

Introduction
------------

Broken Hearts Batte intends to become a free, open source lowpoly 3D fighting
game which feels somewhat like "Rival Schools", and is a homage to the visual
novel Katawa Shoujo. The models will be made in Blender 2.6 or later. The
first version of the game will be programmed using the Blender Game Engine in
Python, so it will be portable to Windows, Linux and OS X.

Nothing much is there yet, but poke around in the various .blend files
using Blender to see what's going on.

The idea is based on a thread I saw somewhere on the forum, and as well on the
KS fighting game, but this games attepts to be distinct by altering the
settings.

Gameplay
--------

The game will use lowpoly 3d graphics, but with the fighting mostly on a
2D plane, in a somewhat "street fighter"-like style. There will be some
projectiles, but they are mostly annoyances, not hadokens! There will also be
no time-outs and no ring. Health is only restored after every duel, every fighter
has several (2, 3, 4) health bars that get depleted one by one, and they act
to divide the combat stead of rounds.

Every fighter also has a Rage/Focus bar that shifts between one of these two depending on play style. Button mashing moves ytyou to Rage, careful attacks
to Focus. Once either Rage or Focus is maxed, different special and super
attacks become possible, as well as a "Finishing Move". When the opponent's
health bar is almost depleted, a Finishing Move, if it connects, is an instant
KO.  Finishing moves are not possible if your health bar is also almost
depleted. The use of finishing moves influences the story of the game.

Help needed
-----------

*) Native english writer to clean up the story.
*) Someone born and living in England for cultural and educational checking.
*) Artists for concept art and portraits.
*) Blender modellers. I will also model.
*) Suggestions for improving the setting and fleshing out the characters
and their fighting styles are always welcome. 
*) Beoran will do the programming, but help with programming is welcome too.


Setting
-------

Broken High is a private charitable high school somewhere in a remote
countryside location in England that aims to give "problem youths" a second
chance in life. Unlike most schools of it's kind, it does not take a 
repressive approach, but tries to reintegrate and prepare the pupils for life
in society, not for a life in prison. 

The schools started out as a normal boarding school for the upper crust. 
However, under the guidance of the current director, the school decided to
also care for those problem youths that would be sent away from other such
upper class institutes. Outwardly, the school keeps up appearances to avoid
scandal.

However, in upper class circles, even internationally, the school
is well known as a place to send "black sheep" children to have them
"sorted out". Those pupils form the majority of the school's population,
and contribute to the school's ample funding. It's rumoured that even the royal
family made use of Broken High's facilities a decade ago.

Be that as it may, coincidentally or not, since about ten years ago, the school
is protected by a special, hushed-up act of parliament. However, due to
political wrangling, this act compelled the school to reform as a charity,
and mandated that a quorum of promising "problem children" or even "normal"
children from middle and lower income families should be allowed, and
that their their tuition fees must be lessened or waived.

Due to the rather liberal attitude, the schools allows the pupils to keep
rebellious hair or looks, as long as they follow the improtant rules. Respect
the law, we act like a family, nothing harmful on the school grounds. The school
is mixed, and actually has more girls than boys. Romance is allowed but sexual
relationships are discouraged.

During holidays, those who are able to do so are allowed to visit their
families. During school hours, pupils may freely use most of the school's
facilities. After school hours and in week ends, the pupils may wander freely
into the nearby village or even visit the city by bus. The residents of the
vilage are simetimes annoyed at the pupil's shennenigans, but the villagers
help keep the "secret" of Broken High because the school is practically all
there is left of the the local economy.

Of course it's not all freedom and fun and games. Pupils must keep up with their
studies, and pass their tests. Many special measures are taken, mostly to keep
bad influences out of the school. Pupils are required to stay in the dorms after
curfew, and their presence is electronically checked with chip badges. Rexina,
the guard dog keeps close watch, and sniffs out any alcohol or drugs brought
into school.

To avoid influence from bad friends, cell phones are not allowed and actively
jammed, both pupils and teachers must use the school's fixed phones. There are
also surveillance cameras in public areas to record any problems. The school is
fenced, and the main gate also closes and locks at night. All these security
features are controlled through a special control room near the director's
office.

Although some pupils feel resentful, and make a difficult start most end up
taking the chance offered seriously and and try to make the best of it. And
although they'd be loathe to admit it, many of them are glad to be there,
and even proud of the school and it's teachers. 

Story
-----

One warm fall in 20XX, Henri, a new pupil joined the last grade in Broken High
after a knife was found in his satchel in his old school... but he claims it
was a present for his mother's birthday. Nevertheless, to prove he is sincere,
he is determined to graduate from in Broken High. Although new, soon Henri
proved to be popular in his own way, and he was soon, apart from a few
exceptions, well liked by his peers. Even Chris, the boy who was seen as an
outcast amongst outcasts got along with him. 

But during the fall holiday, when the director, many of the staff and pupils 
were away, Henri and Chris suddenly disappeared. Then the next morning, someone
had broken in to the control room of the school and barrricaded himself there. 
The gates of the school were closed, the phone connections broken, internet 
down.

A mysterous voice over the PA claimed to have abducted Henri, and threatened
to kill him unless the demands were met. No police, no contact with the outside 
world. The pupils must fight each other until KO, and only the strongest will be 
allowed to fight for the life of Henri. Reluctantly, the remaining staff
decide to meet the demands and allow the tournament to begin, until help 
can somehow be called. 

But what hidden conflicts will come to surface once the fighing starts, and are 
the pupils really willing to fight for one of their pers? Thus begins the 
Broken Hearts Battle!


Characters
----------

* Henri
Gender: Male.
Hair: Blonde, shaven.
Eyes: Brown.
Crimes: Carrying a knife.
Personality: Friendly, intelligent and determined, but somewhat shocked and
annoyed at having to spend his last hear in Broken High. 
History: A normal high school boy who was caugt with a knife in his satchel.
Was sent to Broken High by his parents when the police suggested this option.

* Rose
Gender: Female.
Hair: Red long hair.
Eyes: Green.
Crimes: Petty arson and pyromania.
Personality: Is normally very quiet and shy, but when provoked, will burst out 
in anger. Seems to feel guilty for her past. Is fascinated by fire.
History: Left her foster family and came to Broken High voluntarily when she
found out about it after after her antics with fire got her into hot water.
Seems to have a dark past.
Friends: Yuri seems to be the only one who she can get along at times, although
Rose can get annoyed at times at Yuri's meddling.

* Yuri (幸理)
Gender: Female
Hair: Black.
Eyes: Black.
Crimes: Shoplifting and kleptomania.
Personality: Fancies herself as someone who looks out for others, but is often
seen as someone who meddles where she shouldn't.
History: The daugher of a wealthy Japanese industrial. Already at 15, she had
been caught stealing from shops all over Tokyo, which cause so much embarassment 
for her father's reputation, that she was shipped off to Broken High to 
straighten her out. Still has a few problems speaking the local language.
Friends: Pretends to get along well with everybody, but only Rose actualy 
accepts her as a friend, at least most of the time.

* Ellen
Gender: Female.
Hair: Short, wild, brown with blonde and blue meshes.
Eyes: Green.
Crimes: Underage driving and drinking, joyriding.
Personality: Fun loving girl, but has no eye for the future.
History: Upper class background. When the car she was joyriding crashed,
she came out unscathed, but had to come to Broken High to avoid repercussions.
Friends: Enjoys the calm mood around Romi.

* Romi
Gender: Female.
Hair: Messy long brown hair.
Eyes: Blue.
Crimes: Drug abuse and dealing.
Personality: Perhaps it's due to her former drug abuse, but she's clearly out 
of touch with the world around her. But she's calm and amiable.
History: From a normal family, started dealing to support her own addiction.
Came to Boken High to kick off when she was caught, buts still struggles at 
times to stay clean.
Friends: Romi feels enlivenedend by the antics of Ellen.


* Shelly
Gender: Female.
Hair: Short, dyed green.
Eyes: Brown.
Crimes: Assault and harassment.
Personality: Bossy, overbearing, and likes to push other people around.
Hstory: A school bully who managed to go undetected until caught beating up a
boy so badly he landed in hospital. Expelled, had to come to Broken High
to avoid  a scandal.
Friends: Only Maria is willing to hang out with her.

* Maria
Gender: Female.
Hair: Blonde.
Crimes: None. 
Eyes: Blue.
Personality: Complying and meek to a fault.
History: Childhood friend of Shelly, always stuck with her no matter how bad
she bullied her. Came to Broken High just to be with her friend, even when her
parents discouraged her.
Friends: Shelly, since childhood. 

* Chris
Gender: Male
Hair: Black.
Eyes: Brown.
Crimes: Breaking and entering.
Personality: Outcast amonst outcasts. Intelligent but always seems to be brooding
on plans for world domination. 
History: Caught breaking and entering in a government building. Nothig much else
is known.
Friends: Only Henri, as of lately.

* XXXX
The perpetrator of the abductions. Seems to be closely related to the school
somehow.


License
-------
License of the source code, art and program: the zlib license.

  ksf -- Katawa Shoujo Fighter

  Version 0.0 2012-03-27

  Copyright (c) 2012 Beoran (beoran@rubyforge.org)

  This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied
  warranty.  In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages
  arising from the use of this software.

  Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,
  including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it
  freely, subject to the following restrictions:

  1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not
     claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software
     in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be
     appreciated but is not required.
  2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
     misrepresented as being the original software.
  3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.


Credits
-------

Idea from KS forums, by many, many people. I wouln't have started this
otherwise. Placeholder art comes from paintown, opensourcegameart.org,
and the KS forums. Ask about them and I'll credit you here however you like.































